readme.md, before:

[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/synt.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/synt)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/synt.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/synt)
[![Build Status](https://drone.io/github.com/brentlintner/synt/status.png)](https://drone.io/github.com/brentlintner/synt/latest)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/brentlintner/synt.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/brentlintner/synt)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/brentlintner/synt.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/brentlintner/synt)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/brentlintner/synt/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/brentlintner/synt)

# synt

Similar code analysis.

## Beware!

This project is still `< v1.0.0`.

It is currently under active development, and is subject to change at anytime.

## Supported Languages

* JavaScript
* CoffeeScript
* Ruby

## System Requirements

Depending on what you want to analyze, you will need various things installed.

### JavaScript/CoffeeScript

* [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org)
* [NPM](http://npmjs.org)

### Ruby

* [Ruby](http://ruby-lang.org)
* [RubyGems](http://rubygems.org)
* [Bundler](http://bundler.io)

## Installation

There are various ways to install.

## NPM

The Node based project "supports" every language, and shells out
to other language implementations if they have their dependencies.
So, you should be able to install this on a system with only Node/NPM,
and if you have Bundler, Ruby, etc, then `synt ... -l rb` should work.

### Local Installation

    npm install synt

### Global Installation

    npm install -g synt

#### Installing As Root

In some installations, you may need to run a `sudo npm install -g ...`.

You may have to install Bundler as root first:

    sudo gem install bundler

If you run into issues with Bundler on install, [RVM](http:/rvm.io)'s `rvmsudo` command might aide you, instead:

    rvmsudo npm install -g synt

## Ruby Gem

If you want just Ruby support, you can instead:

    gem install synt

See the [ruby/](ruby/) folder for its implementation.

## CLI Usage

    synt --help/-h

Note: The usage between various language specific CLIs will
share the same core interface.

#### Example

    wget http://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.1.js
    wget http://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.0.js
    synt -c jquery-2.1.0.js -t jquery-2.1.1.js

## Lib Example

In CoffeeScript:

    synt = require "synt"

    # same as the CLIs
    api = compare: x, to: y, ...

    synt.compare api

## Hacking

Note: This primarily deals with tooling in JavaScript. Other language
testing, etc are encapsulated within these. Essentially, `npm run` is your
go to command line tool.

To get started:

    git clone git@github.com:brentlintner/synt.git
    cd synt
    npm install

### Testing

    npm test
    npm run test-cov

### Dev Scripts

To spawn a watch script, just run:

    ./bin/dev &

## Architecture

Code is written in modular, functional CoffeeScript.

### File Structure

* `src` -> any library coffee script files, and other src files.
* `lib` -> output of coffee script compilation.
* `test` -> any testing files (coffee script and compiled js).
* `bin` -> any scripts- primarily used as npm scripts in [package.json](package.json).

## Algorithm(s)

Various algorithms are used to calculate similarity indexes between program tokens and trees.

This library currently supports these:

* [jaccard](src/similar/jaccard.coffee)
* [tanimoto](src/similar/tanimoto.coffee)

## Versioning

This project ascribes to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org).

## Name

`synt` is short for [synteny](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synteny), and is
an (attempted) play on comparing code evolution to genetic (evolution).

## Licensing

This project is licensed under the [ISC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISC_license) license.

Any contributions made to this project are made under the current license.

## Contributions

Current list of [contributors](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/graphs/contributors).

Any contributions are welcome and appreciated!

All you need to do is submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/pulls).

1. Please consider tests and code quality before submitting.
2. Please try to keep commits clean, atomic and well explained (for others).

### Issues

Current issue tracker is on [github](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/issues).

Even if you are uncomfortable with code, an Issue helps!

### Code Of Conduct

This project ascribes to Bantik's [contributor covenant](https://github.com/Bantik/contributor_covenant/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

The NPM package installation had issues.
TL;DR

This updates the readme with detailed solutions on installing
as root with proper ruby support, and also updates the way
the bundler post-install script is run, mainly, making
it more user friendly.

Main Issues

1. When Bundler did not exist, a Ruby exception is logged.

Example errors:

```
  bin/bundle-rb-gems: line 5: bundle: command not found
```

or

```
/Users/brent/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.3/lib/ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/dependency.rb:298:in
`to_specs': Could not find 'bundler' (>= 0) among 15 total gem(s)
(Gem::LoadError)
  from
  ......
```

However, the package still installs, and will log something like:

```
WARNING!

Bundle command(s) failed!

Continuing install, however Ruby support may not work.
```

2. When installing as root (conventional for global NPM package).

Even if Bundler is installed as root, it may hang when
called by the nobody user, so you may get hung up on Bundler
asking for the sudo password that is not yours.

This may be inconsistent, though. Example: you may only
have to bypass this issue one time, and then it seems to work.

readme.md, after:

[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/synt.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/synt)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/synt.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/synt)
[![Build Status](https://drone.io/github.com/brentlintner/synt/status.png)](https://drone.io/github.com/brentlintner/synt/latest)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/brentlintner/synt.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/brentlintner/synt)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/brentlintner/synt.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/brentlintner/synt)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/brentlintner/synt/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/brentlintner/synt)

# synt

Similar code analysis.

## Beware!

This project is still `< v1.0.0`.

It is currently under active development, and is subject to change at anytime.

## Supported Languages

* JavaScript
* CoffeeScript
* Ruby

## System Requirements

Depending on what you want to analyze, you will need various things installed.

### JavaScript/CoffeeScript

* [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org)
* [NPM](http://npmjs.org)

### Ruby

* [Ruby](http://ruby-lang.org)
* [RubyGems](http://rubygems.org)
* [Bundler](http://bundler.io)

## Installation

There are various ways to install.

## NPM

The Node based project "supports" every language, and shells out
to other language implementations if they have their dependencies.
So, you should be able to install this on a system with only Node/NPM,
and if you have Bundler, Ruby, etc, then `synt ... -l rb` should work.

### Local Installation

    npm install synt

### Global Installation

    npm install -g synt

#### Installing As Root

The usual way to install a global package with NPM is as root.

However, this seems to cause issues when using Bundler in the `postinstall` script.

The package should still install without issue, but, to
get this working, you may have to:

    sudo gem install bundler

*Also*, once you have it installed as root, it seems that, with the
way Bundler asks for root access, paired with how NPM runs its package
scripts as the `nobody` user, you may have a few WTF moments..

Try [this](https://www.npmjs.org/doc/misc/npm-scripts.html#user):

    sudo npm install -g synt --unsafe-perm

Bundler will complain, but it should work (please file bug if not, for any reason!).

*Or*, if you are using [RVM](http:/rvm.io), its `rvmsudo` command works great:

    rvmsudo npm install -g synt

## Ruby Gem

If you want just Ruby support, you can instead:

    gem install synt

See the [ruby/](ruby/) folder for its implementation.

## CLI Usage

    synt --help/-h

Note: The usage between various language specific CLIs will
share the same core interface.

#### Example

    wget http://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.1.js
    wget http://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.0.js
    synt -c jquery-2.1.0.js -t jquery-2.1.1.js

## Lib Example

In CoffeeScript:

    synt = require "synt"

    # same as the CLIs
    api = compare: x, to: y, ...

    synt.compare api

## Hacking

Note: This primarily deals with tooling in JavaScript. Other language
testing, etc are encapsulated within these. Essentially, `npm run` is your
go to command line tool.

To get started:

    git clone git@github.com:brentlintner/synt.git
    cd synt
    npm install

### Testing

    npm test
    npm run test-cov

### Dev Scripts

To spawn a watch script, just run:

    ./bin/dev &

## Architecture

Code is written in modular, functional CoffeeScript.

### File Structure

* `src` -> any library coffee script files, and other src files.
* `lib` -> output of coffee script compilation.
* `test` -> any testing files (coffee script and compiled js).
* `bin` -> any scripts- primarily used as npm scripts in [package.json](package.json).

## Algorithm(s)

Various algorithms are used to calculate similarity indexes between program tokens and trees.

This library currently supports these:

* [jaccard](src/similar/jaccard.coffee)
* [tanimoto](src/similar/tanimoto.coffee)

## Versioning

This project ascribes to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org).

## Name

`synt` is short for [synteny](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synteny), and is
an (attempted) play on comparing code evolution to genetic (evolution).

## Licensing

This project is licensed under the [ISC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISC_license) license.

Any contributions made to this project are made under the current license.

## Contributions

Current list of [contributors](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/graphs/contributors).

Any contributions are welcome and appreciated!

All you need to do is submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/pulls).

1. Please consider tests and code quality before submitting.
2. Please try to keep commits clean, atomic and well explained (for others).

### Issues

Current issue tracker is on [github](https://github.com/brentlintner/synt/issues).

Even if you are uncomfortable with code, an Issue helps!

### Code Of Conduct

This project ascribes to Bantik's [contributor covenant](https://github.com/Bantik/contributor_covenant/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
